# Automatic DCF Generator

Automatically create and populate a discounted cash flow for any company tracked by Yahoo Finance. This program pulls financial data for the given company and extrapolates analyst estimates to generate forward-looking projections. These projections are then used to create a discounted cash flows model which presents a supposed "fair value" for the company's stock. This application will also compare the company's performance to its immediate peers using "Price/Earnings," "EV/EBITDA," and "EV/Revenue" valuation multiples. The peer comparisons can then be used to create a "relative valuation" for the given company, which shows how the company's stock would be priced based on its Net Earnings, EBITDA, and Revenue if it traded at the same valuation multiples as its peers. Company peers can either be manually defined or automatically generated by identifying stocks which are commonly viewed alongside the given company. If you would like more information on any of the aforementioned valuation methods, you may wish to view the following resources:

* [Discounted Cash Flow (DCF)](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/dcf.asp)
* [Price/Earnings Ratio (P/E)](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/price-earningsratio.asp)
* [EV/EBITDA (Enterprise Multiple)](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/ev-ebitda.asp)
* [EV/Revenue (EV/R)](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/ev-revenue-multiple.asp)


# Disclaimer

This model is provided for informational purposes only, and is not intended for trading or investing purposes. This model presents forward-looking financial projections which are based on a number of generalized assumptions about past and future performance. These assumptions and/or projections are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainty, and furthermore may be partially or wholly innaccurate. The creator of this application is not a licensed financial advisor or chartered financial analyst, and therefore offers no financial advice to the user. The model and its outputs are not indicative of the creator's opinion on any given security. The model and its outputs do not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any given security. The creator of this application will not be liable for any financial losses occuring as a result of the use of the application. The creator of this application is not affiliated with Yahoo Finance, Macroaxis, or Investopedia and claims no ownership to any of their resources. The model and its outputs do no reflect the opinions of Yahoo Finance, Macroaxis, or Investopedia. 


# Usage

Enter the following commands from the repository root directory to generate a simple DCF using the default settings. The DCF will be created as an Excel (.xlsx) file and saved in the local directory by default. This can be customized by setting a filepath using the --output flag.
```bash
# Create a DCF for Apple (AAPL) using an automatically-generated list of peers
python makeDCF.py AAPL --generate_peers
# Create a DCF for Apple (AAPL) with a manually-defined list of peers. Also set the output file to be "AAPL_custom.xlsx"
python makeDCF.py AAPL --peers GOOG TSLA DDD HPQ LNVGY --output AAPL_custom.xlsx
```

The CLI interface offers the following options to configure the DCF model inputs:

`--generate_peers` or `-gp`: Set this flag to automatically create a list of peers. If this is not set, you must pass a list of peers using the -p flag .

`--peers <list of peers>` or `-p <list of peers>`: Set a list of peers to compare the given ticker to. Must be set if --generate_peers is not set.

`--risk_free_rate <decimal rate>` or `-rfr <decimal rate>`: Set the risk-free rate for cost of capital calculations. Defaults to the current 30Y American treasury yield.

`--market_risk_premium <decimal rate>` or `-mrp <decimal rate>`: Set the market risk premium for cost of capital calculations. Defaults to the most recent American average MRP as given by Statista (0.055).

`--terminal_growth <decimal rate>` or `-tg <decimal rate>`: Set the terminal growth rate in the DCF model. Defaults to PricewaterhouseCoopers\' 50Y projected American GDP growth (~0.0181).

`--forecast_years <integer number of years>` or `-fy <integer number of years>`: Set how many years to make projections for in the DCF model. Defaults to 5 years.

`--output <filepath>` or `-o <filepath>`: Set the filename to save the DCF in. Must be an .xlsx file.
